= Introduction =

MODembed is an experimental IDE aiming to provide a more advanced toolchain for embedded software development. It provides a model-based approach for defining the whole compilation process.

== Model-based approach ==

What do I mean on modal-based approach? In software, everything can be viewed as a model. For example a C file (or set of files) is an abstract behavioral model of a program that can be executed on a specific platform. However, the model is not complete, you cannot execute a C file by itself. The missing part is the model of the platform, the environment the code will be compiled to. This model is only known by the C compiler.

The MODembed toolchain tries to remove this additional knowledge from the compiler and put it into a platform model. Using this concept, the input of the compilation would be not only the code, but also the architecture model.  

=== Program-model and textual notation ===

=== Architecture models ===

=== Compilation workflow ===

== Motivation ==

Why would anybody want a new language? What is the problem with the existing ones? Two languages dominate
the low-end microcontrollers (along with many platform-specific languages): C and Assembler. Assembler is not a real language, it is too low-level to provide a useful way to solve complex problem. Nowadays a developer can expect a high-level language which make things easier. For most, C is the only answer. However, C is a complex language, which is hard to analyze and compile to low-power microcontrollers (and I don't like it personally).

== Links ==

The project is hosted on "GitHub":https://github.com/balazsgrill/modembed you can find there more information, follow the development of the project, or even download the code. 
